Gather cli beta docs in single page (#288)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/cli/azioncli-beta/azioncli-beta.mdx

---
title: Azion CLI Beta
description: Azion's CLI (command-line interface) is an open source tool that enables the management of services offered by Azion.
meta_tags: CLI
namespace: documentation_CLI_beta
permalink: /documentation/products/cli/beta/
no-index: true
---
import Button from '~/components/Button.astro';

:::note 
Azion CLI version 1.x.y is now available. From September 2023, Azion CLI version 0.x.y no longer receives updates. To check the version, run run `azioncli -v` or `azion -v`
:::

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/azion-cli/overview/" text="Go to Azion CLI v1.x.y" variant="secondary"> 
</Button>

Azion **Command-Line Interface** (CLI) is an [open source](https://github.com/aziontech/azion-cli/) tool that enables the management of services offered by Azion using a terminal. By using the **CLI**, you can create and manage services such as **Edge Functions** and **Edge Services**, as well as the provisioning of **Next.js** applications.

> Visit the framework's site at [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Visit the framework's website at [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) for more information.
```

## Commands

### Edge application 

#### Initializing

The initialization process creates the necessary environment for building your edge application. To do this, you must first:

- Choose one of the available types in the CLI:
  - Next.js
  - Static
  - CDN
- Initialize a **JavaScript** project with **Node.js** runtime environment.

#### Usage

```bash
    azioncli edge_applications init
```

#### Flags

##### Name

The `--name` option can be specified, but it isn't mandatory. If it isn't informed, the name of your project will be the same one that is in your `package.json` file.

##### Type

The `--type` option can be specified, but it isn't mandatory. If it isn't informed, the type of your project will be autodetected.

The CLI currently provides three templates and the type `cdn` for building edge applications that follow `--type`:

- Static

```bash
    azioncli edge_applications init --name <"application_name"> --type static
```

- Next.js

```bash
    azioncli edge_applications init --name <"application_name"> --type nextjs
```

- CDN

```bash
    azioncli edge_applications init --name <"application_name"> --type cdn
```

> > **Note**: if there's no `package.json` configuration file in your edge application directory, the CLI will return the following error message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
If there's no `package.json` configuration file in your edge application directory, the CLI will return the following error message:
:::
```

```bash
    Error: Failed to find package.json in current directory. Verify if you are currently in your project's directory
```

In that case, create a `package.json` configuration file for your project in the same directory as your edge application. Then rerun the command in order to initialize the application.

> > **Tip**: the best solution for creating a `package.json` file is to start a Node.js project in your edge application directory. To do so, use the command below from the Node.js runtime environment:
> >
> > `npm init -y`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip
The best solution for creating a `package.json` file is to start a Node.js project in your edge application directory. To do so, use the `npm init -y` command from the Node.js runtime environment.
:::
```

Command response in terminal:

```bash
    Wrote to /Users/<user_name>/web-app-proj/package.json:

    {
    "name": "web-app-proj",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "",
    "main": "index.js",
    "scripts": {
        "test": "echo \"Error: no test specified\" && exit 1"
    },
    "keywords": [],
    "author": "",
    "license": "ISC"
    }
```

##### No

The `--no` option forces a `no` response to all user inputs.

#### Yes

The `--yes` option forces a 'yes' response to all user inputs.

---

#### Building

The second step in creating an edge application is to build it based on the attributes provided in the `init` command. The command used to build the application is the `build` command.

##### Usage

```bash
    azioncli edge_applications build
```

##### Flags

##### Help

The only flag available for the `build` command is `--help`, which displays a brief help screen.

> **Note**: a requirement for using the `build` command is the presence of the [webPack](https://webpack.js.org/) framework installed on your computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the `build` command, you must have the [webPack](https://webpack.js.org/) framework installed on your computer.
```

Como é requirement, penso que seja mais importante que nota

---

#### Publishing

The final step in creating an edge application is publishing it on the Azion platform. The `publish` command performs this task automatically.

##### Usage

```bash
    azioncli edge_applications publish
```

##### Flags

##### Help

The only flag available for the `publish` command is `--help`, which displays a brief help screen.

> **Note**: publishing an edge application via **RTM** or CLI isn't an instantaneous process. There's a time to propagate and configure the application in Azion's edge locations. It may be necessary to wait a few minutes for the URL to be activated and the application page to be effectively displayed in the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
Publishing an edge application via **RTM** or CLI isn't an instantaneous process. There's a time to propagate and configure the application in Azion's edge locations. It may be necessary to wait a few minutes for the URL to be activated and the application page to be effectively displayed in the browser.
:::
```

##### Filter

The `--filter` option filters the applications by their names.

##### Help

The `--help` option displays more information about the `describe` command.

##### Order by

The `--order_by` option sorts the output based on the selected field.

##### Page

The `--page` option returns a page of the list according to its number (default 1).

##### Page size

The `--page_size` option defines how many items should be returned per page (default 10).

##### Sort

The `--sort` option defines the order of the items on the list. The options are `<asc|desc>`.

### Edge functions 

#### Listing your edge functions

List the edge functions available in your library, including the preconfigured `Azion - Hello World` function.

##### Usage

```bash
    azioncli edge_functions list
```

##### Flags

##### Details

The `--details` option displays all relevant fields when listing.

##### Filter

The `--filter` option filters items by their name.

##### Help

The `--help` option displays more information about the list subcommand.

##### Order by

The `--order_by` option sorts the output based on the selected field.

##### Page

> The `--page` option returns a page of the list according to its number (default 1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--page` option returns a page of the list according to its number (default `1`).
```

##### Page size

> The `--page_size` option defines how many items should be returned per page (default 10).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--page_size` option defines how many items should be returned per page (default `10`).
```

##### cache-settings-id

The `--cache-settings-id` flag informs the unique identifier for a Cache Settings configuration.

##### Optional flags

##### out

The `--out` option exports the output of the `describe` command to a given filepath.

##### format

The `--format` option, followed by the value `json`, changes the output format to JSON.

##### help

The `--help` option displays more information about the `describe` subcommand.

---

#### Deleting a cache settings configuration

Delete a Cache Settings configuration on the Azion platform.

##### Usage

```bash
    azioncli cache_settings delete --application-id 0000092 --cache-settings-id 0029
```

##### Required flags

##### application-id

The `--application-id` flag informs the ID of the edge application related to the Cache Settings configuration that will be deleted.

##### cache-settings-id

The `--cache-settings-id` flag informs the unique identifier for a Cache Settings configuration.

#### Optional flags

##### help

The `--help` option displays more information about the `delete` subcommand.

### Origins 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

##### Required flags

##### rule-id

The `--rule-id` flag gives the ID for the rule being described.

##### application-id

The `--application-id` flag gives the ID for the edge application related to the rule being described.

##### phase

The `--phase` flag informs the rule phase, `request` or `response`.

##### Optional flags

##### out

The `--out` option exports the output of the `describe` command to a given filepath.

##### format

The `--format` option, followed by the value `json`, changes the output format to JSON.

##### help

The `--help` option displays more information about the `describe` subcommand.

---

#### Deleting a rule in Rules Engine

Delete a rule in Rules Engine on the Azion platform.

##### Usage

```bash
  azioncli rules_engine delete --application-id 1673635839 --rule-id 12312
```

##### Required flags

##### application-id

The `--application-id` flag informs the ID of the edge application related to the rule being deleted.

##### rule-id

The `--rule-id` flag gives the ID for the rule being deleted.

##### Optional flags

##### help

The `--help` option displays more information about the `delete` subcommand.

### Environment variables 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
